Add terms and definitions (#25)
asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL: content/terms_and_definitions/terms_and_definitions.adoc

Defines true static and dynamic states of objects. The true states are either
determined by the content creator or defined by an omniscient observer, for
example, a simulation platform.

Machine perception::
The ability of systems to interpret sensory data and to reliably detect objects
and other road users relevant to the operation of automated driving. The data is
used to generate situational awareness of the vehicle environment.

* Source: Klaus Dietmayer, Predicting of Machine Perception for Automated Driving, 2016

Material::
A collection of material properties belonging to one entity.

Material assignment::
A mapping of material IDs to parts of 3D models. The material ID is a unique
pointer to a set of material properties in separate material files.

Material classification::
Standardized classification scheme that sorts materials into classes and groups
of classes, for example, based on their physical properties.

Material parameter file::
A file in JSON format containing defined material properties according to the
OpenMATERIAL standard.

Material property::
Denotes the physical, chemical, and geometric properties of a material.

Multispectral/hyperspectral material::

> Material type that interacts with light across multiple wavelengths.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Material with wavelength-dependent properties. 

Multispectral material shows up in imagery as 3-10 wider bands.
Hyperspectral material shows hundreds of narrow bands. 
```

individual models.

Ground truth::
Defines true static and dynamic states of objects. The true states are either
determined by the content creator or defined by an omniscient observer, for
example, a simulation platform.

Machine perception::
The ability of systems to interpret sensory data and to reliably detect objects
and other road users relevant to the operation of automated driving. The data is
used to generate situational awareness of the vehicle environment.

* Source: Klaus Dietmayer, Predicting of Machine Perception for Automated Driving, 2016

Material::
A collection of material properties belonging to one entity.

Material assignment::
A mapping of material IDs to parts of 3D models. The material ID is a unique
pointer to a set of material properties in separate material files.

Material classification::
Standardized classification scheme that sorts materials into classes and groups
of classes, for example, based on their physical properties.

Material parameter file::
A file in JSON format containing defined material properties according to the
OpenMATERIAL standard.

Material property::
Denotes the physical, chemical, and geometric properties of a material.

> Multispectral/hyperspectral material::

Author: The term light commonly only refers to the visible spectrum. I would rather say
"Material with wavelength dependent properties."

described by the same properties, but has individual property values.

Physical property::
Denotes a characteristic of an object that can be measured.
Examples: permittivity, density, index of refraction.

Post rendering effect::
Visual modification applied to graphics after initial rendering, enhancing
appearance or realism without impairing performance.

Scenario::
A description of the behavior or temporal evolution of physical objects and
environmental conditions on the driving infrastructure over an interval of time,
including the movement of traffic participants or the change of environmental
conditions.

* Source: ASAM OpenSCENARIO v1.3.0 standard, 2024

Signal energy propagation::
The act of a signal traveling through the environment and potentially
interacting with objects and particles.

* Source: Linnhoff et al., Towards Serious Perception Sensor Simulation for Safety Validation of Automated Driving - A Collaborative Method to Specify Sensor Models, 2021

Simulation platform::
Application that orchestrates and runs the simulations. It can be either an
all-in-one solution including the generation of the 3D environment or a

> co-simulation platform orchestrating a co-simulation of multiple sensors,
> models, vehicle dynamics models, and so on.

Author: ```suggestion
co-simulation platform orchestrating a co-simulation of multiple sensor models, vehicle dynamics models, and so on.
```

include::{root-path}_config.adoc[]
endif::[]

3D asset::
The combination of an object's 3D geometry, assigned material properties, and
specific metadata.

3D model::
A mathematical coordinate-based representation of an object's geometrical

> surface. This excludes physical material properties. For a combination of 3D

Reviewer: ```suggestion
surface. Material properties used for rendering purposes can be part of the 3D model. This excludes physical material properties. For a combination of 3D
```

geometry and physical material properties, see 3D asset.

Related terms: 3D asset, 3D environment.

3D environment::
A 3D representation of a simulated sensor's surroundings. It can consist of
multiple 3D assets.

Co-simulation::
Simulation of multiple independent models connected with interfaces. A

> co-simulation platform handles the timing and data transfer between the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
co-simulation platform handles the timing, synchronization, and data transfer between the
```

individual models.

Ground truth::
Defines true static and dynamic states of objects. The true states are either
determined by the content creator or defined by an omniscient observer, for
example, a simulation platform.

Machine perception::
The ability of systems to interpret sensory data and to reliably detect objects
and other road users relevant to the operation of automated driving. The data is
used to generate situational awareness of the vehicle environment.

* Source: Klaus Dietmayer, Predicting of Machine Perception for Automated Driving, 2016

Material::
A collection of material properties belonging to one entity.

Material assignment::

> A mapping of material IDs to parts of 3D models. The material ID is a unique

Reviewer 2: A mapping of material IDs to parts of a of 3D models or pixels of textures mapped to these parts.

> A mapping of material IDs to parts of 3D models. The material ID is a unique

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A mapping of material IDs to meshes of 3D models, or pixels of textures mapped to these meshes. The material ID is a unique
```

pointer to a set of material properties in separate material files.

Material classification::
Standardized classification scheme that sorts materials into classes and groups
of classes, for example, based on their physical properties.

Material parameter file::
A file in JSON format containing defined material properties according to the
OpenMATERIAL standard.

Material property::

> Denotes the physical, chemical, and geometric properties of a material.

Reviewer 2: Denotes a physical, chemical, or geometric property of a material.

> Denotes the physical, chemical, and geometric properties of a material.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Denotes a physical, chemical, or geometric property of a material.
```

Multispectral/hyperspectral material::

> Material with wavelength-dependent properties. 

Reviewer 2: Material with wavelength-specific properties that is defined for multiple spectra.

> Material with wavelength-dependent properties. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Material with wavelength-specific properties that are defined for multiple spectra. 
```

Multispectral material shows up in imagery as 3-10 wider bands.
Hyperspectral material shows hundreds of narrow bands. 

Object::
A tangible thing with defined 3D boundaries and discrete meshes. An object ID
can be assigned.

Object part::
A segment of an object that has distinct characteristics, for example, material,
shape, or function.

Example: A car door differs from the rest of the vehicle due to its function
to open and close.

Object type::
Class of objects with the same set of properties. Each instance of the class is
described by the same properties, but has individual property values.

Physical property::

> Denotes a characteristic of an object that can be measured.

Reviewer 2: [...] of an object or material [...]

> Denotes a characteristic of an object that can be measured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Denotes a characteristic of an object or material that can be measured.
```

include::{root-path}_config.adoc[]
endif::[]

3D Asset::

> A 3D model. containing the 3D geometry, combined with assigned material properties and specific meta data.

Reviewer: The combination of an object's 3D geometry, assigned material properties, and specific metadata.

Reviewer 3: done

3D Model::

> A (mathematical) geometrical, coordinate-based representation of the surface of an object.

Reviewer: A mathematical coordinate-based representation of an object's geometrical surface.

Reviewer: General suggestion for 3D model/asset/environment: Maybe only list 3D model and then list asset and environment as related terms to better show how these concepts belong together?

Author: Yes, referencing the definitions of asset and environment is a good idea!

Reviewer 3: updated definition

TODO: add relations

This excludes physical material properties. For a combination of 3D geometry and physical material properties, see 3D Asset.

3D Environment::
A 3D representation of the surrounding of a simulated sensor.

> The 3D environment can consist of multiple 3D assets.

Reviewer: Proposal:
A 3D representation of a simulated sensor's surroundings. It can consist of multiple 3D assets.

Reviewer 3: done

Co-Simulation::

> Simulating multiple independent models connected with interfaces.

Reviewer: Simulation of multiple independent models running simultaneously and connected with interfaces.

Author: The models are not necessarily running simultaneously. In many cases they run sequentially every time step. So I would remove "running simultaneously".

Reviewer 3: done

> A co-simulation platform handles the timing and data transfer between the individual models

Reviewer: the individual models.

Reviewer 3: done

Ground truth::

> True static and dynamic states of all objects as defined by content creator or observed by omniscient observer (e.g. simulation platform).

Reviewer: Proposal:
Defines true static and dynamic states of objects. The true states are either determined by the content creator or defined by an omniscient observer (for example, simulation platform).

Reviewer 3: done

Material::
A collection of material properties belonging to one entity.

Material assignment::
A mapping of material IDs to parts of 3D models.

> The material IDs are unique a point to a set of material properties in separate material files.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The material IDs are a unique pointer to a set of material properties in separate material files.
```

Author: Shouldn't it be "A material ID is a unique pointer ..." or "The material IDs are unique pointers ..."?

Reviewer 3: Yes, thanks for the remark. I updated the suggestion

Reviewer 3: done

Material classification::

> Sorting materials into classes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Standardized classification scheme that sorts materials into classes and groups of classes, for example, based on their physical properties.
```

Material Parameter File::

> A file in json format containing defined material properties according to the OpenMATERIAL standard.

Reviewer: ...in JSON format...

Author: :+1:

Reviewer 3: done

Material property::

> Intensive physical or chemical properties of a material 

Author: I would hold off the "geometric" for now. This is not decided yet. And I don't know if it is a good idea to name examples here. Texture could be a bit misleading and things like thickness are also not figured out, yet. Temperature is not really material property.

Coming up with these properties is kind of the core of this project. So I would not name them here in the definitions.

> Intensive physical or chemical properties of a material 

Reviewer: zweiten Satz (vorerst) streichen

> Intensive physical or chemical properties of a material 

Reviewer: are there any physical properties?

> Intensive physical or chemical properties of a material 

Reviewer 3: done

* Notes: Open Point: What about geometric properties, i.e. roughness, thickness?

Multispectral/hyperspectral::

> A wide range of wavelengths.

Reviewer 3: Proposal

Multispectral/hyperspectral imaging::
Method that captures detailed information across multiple wavelengths, allowing precise identification and analysis of materials.

Reviewer: material definitions with various wavelengths? wide range of wavelengths
imaging => material

Reviewer 3: changed to "Material type that interacts with light across multiple wavelengths."

Normals (face, vertex normals)::

> A vector that is perpendicular to a given object, surface, vertex or geometrical primitive.

Author: Great catch. I like the differentiation.

> A vector that is perpendicular to a given object, surface, vertex or geometrical primitive.

Reviewer 3: done, added terms "surface normal" and "vertex normal" to glossary

Object::
An entity to which an object ID can be assigned.
It comprises discrete meshes and defined 3D boundaries.

> 

Reviewer 3: Proposal:

A visible and/or tangible thing with defined 3D boundaries and discrete meshes. An object ID can be assigned.

Author: "visible" is a bit fuzzy, especially if we are talking about multiple sensor technologies. Is a flat glass pane visible?

I like tangible, though! So if you could remove visible from your proposal, I would approve.

Reviewer 3: done, updated description and removed "visible"

Object Part / Subtype::

> (To be defined)

Reviewer 3: @ClemensLinnhoff: Not sure whether this term refers to a part/component of an object or a certain type of display feature. Let's discuss in our call this afternoon.

I have the impression that we need to define two concepts:
- Part/component of a 3D object: A signpost consists of two parts, a pole and plate. The pole is represented by a line, the plate is represented by a polygon.
- Material type/feature: Type of geometry used for display. Examples: line, polygon...

Reviewer: discuss Geometry later
Subtype will be discussed in vehicle hierarchy

Reviewer 3: replaced with:

Object part::
A segment of an object that has distinct characteristics, for example, material, shape, or function.

Example: A car door differs from the rest of the vehicle due to its function to open and close.

* Notes: What is an object and what is an object part?

Object Type::

> Class of objects with common properties

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Class of objects with the same set of properties. Each instance of the class is described by the same properties, but has individual property values.
```

> Class of objects with the same set of properties. Each instance of the class is described by the same properties, but has individual property values.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Class of objects with the same set of properties. Each instance of the class is described by the same properties, but has individual property values.
```

Perception::
The process of detecting objects and generating situational awareness of the surrounding of an automated system using perception sensors.
"Machine perception is to reliably detect all the other road users relevant to the operation of the automated driving, and to assign them correctly to the traffic infrastructure."

> 

Reviewer 3: I propose to define term "machine perception" instead of "perception", and to merge the direct citation into the definition. Do we need the part about traffic infrastructure in the general description?

Machine perception::
The ability of systems to interpret sensory data and to reliably detect objects and other road users relevant to the operation of automated driving. The data is used to generate situational awareness of the vehicle environment.

Author: No I don't think we need the traffic infrastructure part.

Reviewer 3: done

* Source: Klaus Dietmayer, Predicting of Machine Perception for Automated Driving, 2016

Physical (as in physical parameter)::

> A physical property is any property of a physical system that is measurable. 

Author: Color and opacity are kind of tied to to the visual spectrum. I would rather use permittivity, index of refraction, density as examples.

> A physical property is any property of a physical system that is measurable. 

Reviewer 3: done

* Source: Mark, Burgin (2016-10-27). Theory Of Knowledge: Structures And Processes

Post (Rendering) Effects::
Rendering techniques to improve fidelity while maintaining performance, that are typically non-physical (or in other words fake)

> Scenario.::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Scenario::
```

> Rendering techniques to improve fidelity while maintaining performance, that are typically non-physical (or in other words fake)

Reviewer 3: Proposal

Post rendering effect::
Visual modification applied to graphics after initial rendering, enhancing appearance or realism without impairing performance.

Reviewer 3: done

A description of the behavior or temporal evolution of physical objects and environmental conditions on the driving infrastructure over an interval of time, including the movement of traffic participants or the change of environmental conditions.

* Source: ASAM OpenSCENARIO v1.3.0 standard, 2024

Signal (Energy) Propagation::

> "During signal [or energy] propagation, the signal travels through the environment and possibly interacts with objects and particles."

Reviewer: Proposal: Rephrase the quote to an indirect one as to match the other definitions' template

The act of a signal traveling through the environement and potentially interacting with objects and particles.

Reviewer 3: done

* Source: Linnhoff et al., Towards Serious Perception Sensor Simulation for Safety Validation of Automated Driving - A Collaborative Method to Specify Sensor Models, 2021

Simulation Platform::
Application orchestrating and running the simulation. The can be an all-in-one solution including the generation of the 3D environment or a co-simulation platform orchestrating a co-simulation of multiple sensor, models, vehicle dynamics models etc.

Validation::

> Comparing simulated data to measured data and quantifying the differences.

Reviewer 3: done

> Application orchestrating and running the simulation. The can be an all-in-one solution including the generation of the 3D environment or a co-simulation platform orchestrating a co-simulation of multiple sensor, models, vehicle dynamics models etc.

Reviewer: Proposal:
Application that orchestrates and runs the simulations. It can be either an all-in-one solution including the generation of the 3D environment or a co-simulation platform orchestrating a co-simulation of multiple sensors, models, vehicle dynamics models, and so on.

Reviewer 3: done
